And whoever was described the 1st time will now share their W. 3, and the other partner will write down and not talk. The other partner will write down what they're hearing and what questions they have, and then we'll switch one more time. So there are 4 segments.
We're the person that just wrote down all their notes will repeat back what they heard, and any questions.
And if there's extra time you can begin to answer the questions to your partner. But the whole point is really to just get those questions shared not for you to answer them.
Does anyone have any questions before I put you guys into breakout rooms.
I'll send you cues in the chat for your timing.
Okay.
Let's put you guys in.
I'm gonna do it by founder, so the whole teams will not be together. We're gonna have.
Completely separate people.
In each breakout room.
And it's gonna be pretty random.
And
Kevin from my team. I'm gonna put you in a room as well to.
Even out the odd number.
Alright! We'll see you guys in a second.
Makes me sad.
Alright, we're gonna.
I took all the founders there.
We'll find one.
Okay, so what happened? How did that feel? I wanna hear from at least 2 of you.
By. By the way, there are 2 really cool tiki bars in San Francisco.
Yeah. Good. The recordings. Now, the recording. Sorry I can shut up.
Happy to take you guys.
I'll just mention I really enjoyed talking with William and Dominique, because
They have a beachhead market, and we have a beachhead market that's like very niche. So it was cool. Hearing that from another founder.
Yeah, you guys have similar experiences with your businesses. I caught that.
We also like me and Nick.
We're pretty compatible, I guess, in Matching, because.
We are analyzing people who play games, and he happens to be a gamer, and he happens to be a gamer. He happens to be a person who's playing a game that I am very intimate with.
So you know, I was able to, you know. Pick out well, if you're doing that and doing that, you fall into this category in our game.
And then my both of my parents are teachers, and my entire family is comprised of teachers, both in the father side and the mother side.
So, and he's doing a student preparation.
Tech for the Iv students. So I guess that was pretty cool.
I'm so glad you guys enjoyed it.
What's the game?
It sounds like somebody of you.
Yeah. Apparently he was playing legal.
Oh!
And I gave the example out of legal. So you know.
There you go!
I was like.
Oh, you guys, are, you guys are on a different level? Alright.
You guys have so many similarities between all of you amongst the class. It's awesome.
So I'm wondering. Did anybody like try to explain their W. 3? And then what they heard back was like totally not what they thought.
They had said.
Did anybody have trouble getting their listener to like, really understand exactly what it was? Or were you surprised with what they heard.
I think oh.
Circle.
Well, I have. I have a little. I'm sorry. Go on.
For us. Do you think.
Okay, I have a little personal note I'm not the one usually.
Nonetheless.
I'm not the one the talkative one in my team so usually, or talks so it was kind of a different.
Experience for me to express.
All of these things that I have in mind about our company. So.
I'm trying to get better. And this was really fun for me and educated for me personally. So I just want to add that.
I'm so glad you added that brush. I literally have a slide for that. Everyone on your team needs to understand and believe your W. 3. You need to be able to articulate it. I I'm so happy to hear you say that it was a good experience for you, because not just the CEO, every single team member in the room today and not in the room today. So those of you who have part time participants who are part of your company, but they're not in tech stars.
Every single person needs to be able to understand and believe in your company's. W. 3.
The reason for this not only is for company in your joint goals and initiatives, but also because you never know what the opportunities.
What opportunities might come for every single employee that you have.
Someone might be in an elevator with a key investor or stakeholder or customer that.
If they were able to pitch your W. 3 s. And explain your business could unlock huge opportunities for your business. The the CEO is not the only one who exists in the world who represents the company, so I can't tell you how many co-founders, employees, not even co-founders, just team members in general have been able to unlock opportunities because they went through techstars or their team did, and they were able to articulate their W. 3.
These opportunities come.
All times, and you have to be ready for them so definitely, making sure that your team is aligned on this and that everyone can do it so, Brush! I loved that
Liliana, how do you feel about.
The need to customize the W. 3 to your audience. So.
One customer might resonate with one aspect of your story versus an investor. You might think of it.
Differently, so on and so forth.
I would definitely say, just in general, the the way you would talk about your business to an investor versus a customer is different.
But to an investor understanding your customer deeply is extremely attractive to them. So it's it's not as different as you might think.
I I saw Neil nodding his head. Did you want to add to that.
Yeah.
Good question.
I had a kind of a question to build on that I was gonna wait, but.
One thing I've struggled with is talking about the beach head with investors, cause it kind of distracts from like the bigger picture, and they get like hyper focused on that one niche that we're working on. And so.
Maybe not to answer now, but just kind of putting it out. There. That that's something that's like one of the goals I put on my sheet was to really like, think about like.
How we communicate. Why, we're approaching the market like we're approaching it.
I I would start with the the grand vision, and then work your way backward to say, Here's our wedge to get there.
Okay.
So if you lead in with how you're like what you're doing now, people will get distracted.
Especially on the investor side. But if you start with the big outcome and desired, like, you know, vision for your what you're gonna do you say? And here's how I'm gonna make it.
I'm starting here, small but.
And then.
You elaborate.
Could could the grand vision be too big? Can the vag be too big for cause? I've shared Vag and.
You can sound naive.
It scared a lot of investors home.
Yeah, okay.
Sorry I am.
Yeah, yeah, there's a sweet spot. You gotta hit the sweet spot. We'll help you with that. But, like the notion is that you have to signal a big enough vision where it can get even bigger with their input.
Meaning like you'll sell them on the.
What you you're claiming the big vision is. And they're gonna add, oh, but you could also expand verticals. And like, you know, they're gonna get excited. Think they're like, have more ownership in it, whatever. But you already thought of it. They're just, you know, just making them feel.
Good.
Absolutely.
So we're gonna do a ton of exercises like what you just did in the breakout room, practicing being able to articulate your business in a short amount of time. So.
You had in total 3 min, basically 90 seconds back and forth.
How? Basically, if that didn't work and you need more time. And you're not sure exactly how to explain it. How can you grab someone's attention and much less time. So what I mean to say here is.
We talk about elevator pitches, 60 second pitches. You really only have 5 to 10 seconds to answer somebody. At all of the events, we're gonna put you guys in front of. So you meet a mentor at our event next week. They ask you what you're working on. You have probably about 10 seconds, Max, to get their attention. And that's what I want you guys to be able to do. I want in the that very short amount of time those few seconds for them to be able to probably feel.
How well you know your business, and for them to understand what your business is and does, and who they serve.
So that's our goal.
Also everything that you just explained was speculation. Like I said, you guys just wrote those down on a paper and then gave it. So we're gonna get into now.
The actual nitty gritty of your W. 3.
One more caveat is that until you have data, you shouldn't go too far in any one direction. So a lot of you are probably like steadfast and ready like. This is my who this is who I'm serving, and I'm sure.
What I say in the book is being lost in the middle of nowhere, like if you were just dropped in the desert, and there are not very many landmarks, or anything to be able to know where you are.
You wouldn't just pick a random direction and walk in that direction, and hope you'll find water or a city.
You would start looking for landmarks, for small signs, for any sort of data. You can tell.
That you're going in the right direction, and it's the same for your business. So make sure that you are wary of that. If any of you are going off of a lot of assumptions which we'll talk more about tomorrow. Don't just go off of a bunch of assumptions and speculation of what you feel is correct and go too far in that direction. We wanna be extremely conservative and hinge it all on validation and data.
Soresh got this point for us. We're already ready, so let's jump into w. 1.
So w. 1 is the.
Who do, I believe, is my customer.
So I'm gonna teach you guys about this. And then we're gonna go back through and try and rewrite what what you have.
So who do, I believe is my customer.
This should be at full scale. Your total addressable market.
Just like Annie was asking, but for now.
Start, narrow.
It should be extremely uncomfortable. I know a lot of you want to talk in great detail about how big your business is going to be, and all of that. But right now your w. 1 should be a tight control group, very much like we were talking about with screening.
Even if your w. 1 segment is point 0 0 1 of the entire market that you'll eventually get to capture.
At least you'll have absolute confidence that you can make a sale to every single one of those members in your Icp.
That's how narrow it should be. Neil hinted at this in his job to be done lecture. Then I would get into this.
This week, and that's exactly what I'm saying now.
Every single person in your w. 1 should result in a sale because of how narrow and niche it is, and how well you know their segment.
This is not where you're ending.
It's where you're starting, so that you can get a very deep understanding of all of the attributes and struggles that exist in that small segment.
There's no such thing as too narrow. So if you feel like you are, you're probably in the right direction, and if you're just.
Putting something on the paper, like all of you did, I would say. You probably need a half, or even quarter the amount of people that are in that segment that you talked about.
If I can just add one thing here, Liliana.
To say it in a different way to reinforce what she just said.
We really mean it like.
There's there's someone probably.
Who you are getting closer to understanding, based on your jobs to be done in your analysis.
Where, if you got a chance to get in front of them with what you are building, or what you have.
They would.
Just.
Be so ready to say yes on the spot.
Whoever that perfect customer is is what we're looking for. A descriptive.
Nothing more.
And I find founders.
Unfortunately, because I think this whole venture market conditions you all.
More broadly. So you need to serve a large group.
I'm I'm giving you permission to forget about scale and massiveness and size and all that stuff.
I just want you to get one.
Perfect customer.
So think about who that person is, and we'll go from there.
That's perfect.
So this next slide is something I love to talk about. It is the diffusion of innovation.
Or the innovators curve.
Many of you might have seen this before. Some of you haven't. A lot of the founders coming into techstars have not seen this, which is why I started teaching it in this workshop.
So basically, what you're looking at here is.
The adoption curve for any new technology.
And for the entire public.
So it starts off with innovators who are okay with risk. And then we go into early adopters also, okay, with risk and getting in there early before they hear about it from everyone. Then there's this chasm, and there's a very famous book about crossing the chasm. That's what it's called I highly recommend. It's about sales.
And then you get into early majority and like majority, this is when most of.
The people out in the public are talking about it. You see it on social media. It's it's a well known household name. And then at the end we get to laggards and laggards. I always explain as.
People who are in the nursing home learning Google for the 1st time, like, those are the kinds of people that are laggards. You guys should basically not even consider the laggards and considered like that, you will never reach them, because that's.
What monoliths are after. At this point only big companies like Apple Google are worried about the laggards because they've already captured all the way through the late majority.
So for you guys, I used to like, ask the question, where do you guys think that you are? A lot of people? Say, early majority.
Which makes sense. You think you're early, maybe even early adopters.
We are.
In the innovator section.
Every single one of you.
And we're not even in the innovator section. I like to say we're on the line.
Of the block that starts the innovator section like exactly where that arrow points that little black line. That's us. We're at the point 0 0 1.
Of the entire Tam.
So this is just to put into perspective. That's correct. That's what we want. We want to be so narrow and so targeted and have such a strong and deep understanding of that, and then we expand outward.
So does anyone have questions on this diffusion of innovation.
Curve. This is very important that you understand.
First, st mark.
Fabio! Go ahead!
Yeah. And I just think it's very smart.
I again just picture many people we talked to.
Maybe in the late majority, or even in a laggers. And I'm just realizing now that.
I didn't use this as a criteria when I was.
Kind of like sizing them up, or just figuring out what kind of customer they could be. But I should have this.
Yeah, yeah. I'm just like wasting your time where you.
Talk to innovators.
Exactly. It is a waste of time. You will get there.
Starting a a company as a 6 to 8 year journey. I promise you'll get to late majority cause we want all of you to be extremely successful and reach your full scale.
But for now we're in the innovators.
Annie, did you have a question? Someone else unmuted.
Oh, I was just I I was just gonna say I I'm wondering and you might cover this later. But if there's a.
A chasm between.
The innovators, and early adopters, too.
That's a good question. I think I think there's a small chasm between every section, because you are making a leap to a new segment, and it has, like different criteria. But it's just not the biggest leap.
Okay.
The reason there's a chasm there is because it like that's where most businesses hit their pitfalls.
Like they get all the early adapters you hear about them. I'm sure you guys can think of a lot of ones that maybe you saw on Kickstarter you heard a lot about, but.
They don't make it to early majority. They don't make it to the point that your friends know about it. Your parents know about it. They just can't cross that chasm.
Beyond the series, a Annie. So like, if you think about it, there's companies that end up doing quite well, like a lot of mine. I have a lot of companies that are now moving into the early Adopter phase over the past 5 years.
Where they're making millions of dollars. They're serving thousands and tens of thousands of customers. But now they're at that weird spot. Are we gonna make it? Are we gonna blow through? Are we gonna flatten out or stagnate.
So it's a really sensitive spot right there, but if you get over it, then you win.
Cool.
Okay, are we good to move on from.
Diffusion of innovation. Any other questions.
Okay, this is crucial. And I will refer back to this the whole program, because this is a huge.
Part of understanding markets. And what you guys are going to go after now versus in the future.
Once you know your who intimately.
That very narrow segment you can identify every attribute of what makes that? Who a perfect customer.
And then, once you've validated your theory of this narrow group, you can make a list of all of the attributes and situations and struggles and circumstances that they're under of this narrow segment, and then you test each 1 1 by one, to expand your base outward at a high success rate.
So that's kind of the secret. So you have this narrow segment that you're hitting 100 of the time. And you know this list of things about them. So maybe it's like, if we go to the Snickers example, maybe it's.
Not just people who are in a rush of the airport. Maybe people will want a snickers as well. So if we, you know.
Change our marketing toward that. Does that expand our base things like that? So you test every single attribute. And it's a much more systematic approach to expanding your market than just these random throwing darts against the wall that most people do. So. That's why I love this. It's anyone who likes data or a very systems oriented approach. This is.
Absolutely, that.
So a lot of people ask me around this point of the workshop. What's the difference between this and Jt.
And a long time ago I used to teach W. 3 on its own, as completely separate. And then I realized these things go together so.
While they're both related to starting with a narrow group of customers, one is for interviewing, the other is for sales. W. 3 is a theory about your business. So the whole point of W. 3 is.
Knowing your business, and you're making this theory in jobs to be done. We don't make a theory. There's no hypothesis. You're setting out to learn something, and you don't make a guess. You just go and talk to those people for W. 3. We're trying to make a theory, and we're trying to test it, to know if it's correct.
So.
The Jtbd. The answer to this question is.
The interviews and the customer discovery insights you're gonna get from doing. That is the tool to verifying whether or not your W. 3 is correct.
So that's how we're gonna use the 2 hand in hand. It's kinda like a superpower.
And if done well, something magical happens.
Amos calls it magical, I would just call it.
Success in this process. It will directly inform your product roadmap and your financial model in a very predictable way.
So without understanding this. W. 3, you're kind of making a product, roadmap and financial model in the dark.
Troy talks about it like driving with your eyes shut like you're you're not really using a map.
This is your map. That's why I've renamed this to business. Blueprint. This is your blueprint. This is your roadmap, and it will directly inform your product and your finances in a predictable manner, so you'll be able to make those bets.
Correctly. You can invest the 10 K in making this product because you know exactly what to build.
One more caveat is for 2 marketplaces. You will have 2. You have 2 W ones.
Focus on the one that gives you money.
But then you should go back later and do the other half.
Just like in Java.
So I want you guys to take. I'm gonna give you.
90 seconds.
To write down your who.
Based on everything that we just talked about.
Trying to make it as narrow as possible.
Can I ask a question.
Absolutely.
I have a who in mind but.
Essentially.
I have a who in mind which I think is really ideal.
But that's.
More difficult to reach than.
Other. Who's that I can think of.
Who would?
Be more.
It would be easier to reach, to reach out to, but.
Might not necessarily be.
As interested in the pro, in my product.
Shall I still stay focused on whom I think is ideal, and ignore.
The challenges of reaching to that customer.
Yeah, that's a really good question. So like, how much does accessibility play a role in this? I would say, if you're going after people who are more accessible like you can reach them more easily. But they're not as ideal.
They're also not accessible.
They're not going to be.
Able to be sold to a hundred percent of the time. So how hard to reach is this ideal customer.
Is it just a challenge of time? Cause? That's okay. A lot of b 2 b companies are.
Essentially, since we're a b 2 b company, the higher you go up in the organization, the more likely it is that they'll find a tool useful.
But if I go lower in the organization.
A manager is more likely to respond to me than the CTO.
I see.
But a CTO is going to find my tool more useful.
I think we want to go with who is ideal, because even if they're easier to reach out to if they're gonna say, no, there's no point. Your efforts would have been better spent on trying to reach the harder to reach one who is more ideal.
If you know that that's a better person to sell to, and I have an example of selling to the higher ups in a second.
But I love that question. I I think we should try and change our mindsets where, yeah, some people might be a low hanging fruit. If they're not ideal, you're just gonna get a know every single time. And that's a waste of your time for outreach.
I want you guys to be using your time for 100 hit rates. You're you're getting the sale every single time, or else it's a waste of your time, and the whole reason we are the whole ability to do that is based on knowing a very narrow w 1.
So does anybody want to share what they wrote down for their very narrow w. 1 before we move on.
Yeah.
Sorry. I actually had a quick question before share is, is that is that okay?
So me and.
Nick, we have a a mentee, and he is. He absolutely loves our product. He reached out to us first, st saying, Hey, love, you guys are doing. I have so many ideas. I wanna help out. How can I do this?
But I think my question here is, do we just.
Backwards engineer almost, and just describe this exact person who was making all this effort to.
Contact us reach out to us. And you know, it's really like early curve like is that.
To. I know we wanna get narrow. How narrow are we going there? Is that? Do we put too much faith on? Just we use our number one or.
Okay.
Probably one that you want more of that's believable. Right? So the what you're describing sounds meaning like this is someone who literally hunted you down and like.
Right.
Like they they they.
Yeah.
Th this is.
I think it's more of the.
You're you're right to ask this question because you do want to take it one step easier you like. I'm not saying I want all my customers to sell themselves on me, and then present themselves to me.
And I won't have to do anything like, so that does sound like a reach.
To me.
I think rep.
B- being replicable. It's very important.
So that's why, like Neil's calling this person an exception, because you're not going to be able to replicate that.
Reaching out to people. And I'm saying, Yes, that is replicable.
So that's really that's important. Here.
Got it. Okay.
That was a great question.
Let's take one example of someone's who.
Yeah. George.
Cool. Thanks. Yeah. Happy to. So
I said.
I'm looking for the CEO of.
Boutique Qualitative Market Research Company with over a million dollars annual revenue.
Who struggles to hire enough staff and has a backed up sales, pipeline.
That's.
Because I've met a few of those, and I think they.
I love how narrow that is! I would make the last.
Hmm.
Statement a little bit more of like what we were saying. Boolean, like it's a true or false like what defines a backed up.
Sales cycle or hard to hire people like. Did they lose a couple of recruits.
Okay.
Hmm.
Like they've lost 2 more recruits in the past year something like that where it's like someone can read that and say, that's me.
Okay, awesome. Yeah, do that.
But that was really good. That was a really good example. Do you guys see how narrow that was?
Not only the type of company who at the company you qualified the company. That's something that usually people don't do. I was grateful to hear you say that. So you can say like companies 50 to 100 employees, you said, with over a million in revenue. That's a great qualifier, all that was great.
Cool. Let's move to W. 2.
Yeah. Kevin.
No, all good. I want to take your question.
Sorry I was. I thought, we're all just sharing I was. Gonna I was gonna share mine as well. We can.
Okay, you can share your W, you can share the next one.
Thank you.
Let's move on to W. 2. I'm wary of the time. So let's just keep moving forward, and I'll stay on and evaluate people's after you still want to present.
So W. 2 is the what.
This is, what do I believe my customer is buying from me.
This one has a huge distinction. So like someone asked when we were doing the.
Very 1st exercise.
Do we mean W.
What they think we're buying or what I'm selling. That's exactly what we have here. So what they're buying is different than what you are selling. Most people coming into techstars. Tell me what they're selling.
All of you know exactly what you're selling, you know. Why you're selling it.
But do you know what the customers are buying from you?
It's very similar to jobs to be done.
So there's a distinction here.
Customers don't care what you do. They don't care that you have this.
Platform with all these bells and whistles, and this is what you do, what you provide. They care what you do for them. So there's this concept of the selfish buyer, which is every single buyer, and that's completely fine, and it's up to us to accept that about them. They only care what you can do for them.
So what's the difference between what you do and what you can do for them?
The difference is the job just like jobs to be done.
So you want to lead with how the product is going to impact their lives.
I'll recall to Neil's example quarter inch drill versus. If you remember the example.
A hole in the wall.
When someone is at home. Depot buying this quarter and drill home depot is so excited they sell all the different drills with all the different bits, every single model that they could.
Ever fathom. The person going in just wants a hole in their wall.
They're not buying the drill from them. They don't care about what the what different drills they're selling. They want the best item.
To get the thing that they want to accomplish, which is a hole on the wall.
So whichever one is going to be the best for the situation that they're in, that's what they're interested in.
So W. 2 is not always.
Concrete.
And sometimes it's more than one thing.
Sometimes it's a little bit more abstract.
Also the W. 2 can help inform your w. 1.
So if you're who is correct.
You'll have data that shows your who cares about your what.
If you're facing problems trying to validate your what, you should probably go back to your w. 1, because that means you're who isn't correct, so they directly feed into one another.
So.
When I say it's not always concrete.
Another example I always like to give is haircuts.
So when I'm going to get a haircut.
All of the salons are selling all these different cuts, and all of these different services.
But what am I buying? Well, actually, what are each of you buying.
When you go.
To buy a haircut. What are you buying? What matters to you?
Yeah, it's like.
To look it up.
Hit! Say it again.
Yeah, that they know.
Kevin.
No, I just said to look good afterwards. That's what I'm buying.
To look. Good. Okay. Flow.
That my hair is healthy, and that I don't have split ends.
To health. You want your hair to be healthy. Okay, Fabia.
That. They know what they're doing, so I know I'm in good hands.
Saying it, say it louder.
That they know what they're doing. So they're professionals.
You're buying their yeah, their professionalism and their expertise.
George.
I was gonna say, peace of mind not having to worry about.
The inconvenience.
Of a.
Of doing it yourself.
Having this annoying long hair.
Yeah.
Oh, no! Just like.
Or oh, long hair.
Okay.
Yeah, like, right now, I need a haircut right now. It's annoying me.
So it's top of mind.
Yeah.
So you want. You want your hair out of your face. You're buying peace of mind. More hours at work because you were annoyed with the the hair like we could take it a step further. All of these different things.
Oh, yeah.
What's windy, or anything.
Or what about you?
Well, it might be a local thing, but here the barbers and their clients usually get very intimate, and you know.
They share a lot of stories. They share a lot of.
You know.
Chit chat that's supposed to be relieving, and some of them do really extensive head massages, so those could be both as well. I am buying them.
That is so cool.
Maybe others too.
That's definitely cultural, like my husband is very close with his Barbara, and when he goes it's definitely for the haircut. I completely agree with that. And then it sounds like you're also buying stress relief from the massage.
Yeah, yeah, like, like, literally, my barbar knows more about my business that my parents combined.
That's awesome.
I haven't heard that one before, but I completely agree. So exactly. These are the. This is our what this is, what we mean by what. So I want to challenge you guys, shift your mind from what you're selling to what your customers buying. So take a look at the w. 1 that you wrote down.
And write down A. W. 2. For what? That segment, that specific segment you wrote down? What are they buying from you?
Don't get into why they care.
We'll get into that. Just the what.
Take.
90 seconds.
Okay.
Features. So if you wrote anything down about your features, you probably want to rethink it.
Only about the impact. Let's do, Dave and Talitha. And then, Kevin, I told you you could also present.
Go ahead! Dave!
I'm curious if I got this right. But, my customers are buying into a gaming system that they believe will fulfill their storytelling needs.
And provide enjoyment to their players.
Yeah, I would even argue they're not. They're not buying.
The gaming system. It's more the things that you said after that.
I think the the gaming system might be more of what you're selling.
The the things that come to fruition because of them buying it.
Got it. And then also, they're buying into a community and a subculture to some degree.
Yeah, I love that. So they're buying community. They're buying. Yeah, they're buying friends.
It makes them happy. What was the second thing you said.
Subculture they're buying into a subculture.
Yeah.
Those things. So it's it's a lot less about the product itself.
It's about the things they're getting from it.
That's perfect, Telitha.
I know I didn't write like a sentence, but I just listed a couple of things. So number one is peace of mind, so that they don't have to deal with any of the nuisances that come with dealing with guests or their issues.
Secondly, is time back in their day, and the freedom to use it in the way that they would wish, whether that is, with their personal life, but also with their own business.
And the 3rd one is the ability to be able to actually grow their business more.
Yeah.
That's great. I think every single one of you can probably write peace of mind on yours. So I like to caution that cause. That's like a pretty general one. What? What is it? Exactly. That's specific to your customer, that one's. It's very easy to write that, because if you're making a solution to a problem that inherently gives peace of mind. Right? That's what's problem solving is. So most of you probably did write that it's not wrong. It's just too vague to try and like.
Make it a little bit more specific to your business, but the other 2 I completely agree.
So.
Kevin, did you want to go.
Yeah. Sure.
They're buying efficient way to study, either due to convenience or necessity.
They want something that can help them out 24 HA day that they.
Where they themselves don't have to know what they don't know. They wanna feel confident that they know the information leading up to exams, and they wanna be comfortable in their own space.
Right.
Okay, I think we kind of got into it more. With the last 2. They're buying confidence and comfort. The 1st couple I heard a couple of like features like 24 7 access things like that, I would say, if they're buying a a study help whatever the 1st one was where you said. They're buying help with study. That that's a little bit more about what you're offering are what are they buying? Are they buying the good grade like. Is that why they need to study help? I would argue, yes, that's probably more.
What they're buying from that like. What is the consequence of it?
The good grade. They're buying success in their class for those 1st few, but the second 2 were very good.
Yeah. Fabio.
I just had a quick question about this cause I I saw a lot of people like bringing up matters of like like psychology, or like emotions, and like the buying process, which I think is a part of the job to be done
Yeah, you guys like had us do for the application.
I was wondering, like, how important it is to include it in, like the what they're buying, because.
You know they're buying, for example, with us was like.
The possibility to eliminate or reduce the complexity of setting up a computer. But I was wondering if I should include the like, the emotion, or like I don't know the.
More like personal effectiveness.
Creates in the, in the buyer, like peace of mind, or all these other aspects.
That's a good question. I think. Not. Every single business, the what is emotional so.
It doesn't have to be like for the barber example. Some of us are buying confidence. Other people are just buying, or like George, it's much more utilitarian. He just wants to be less annoyed with the long hair, so.
I think what you said like. It's not a very emotional buy, but I will say most of you for the why the W. 3 we're about to do will be pretty emotional.
So some of you, the what and the why will be emotional.
For a lot of the b 2 b. The what probably isn't.
Or it's a smaller one.
And the main, what is much more.
Practical kind of like what you just said, Fabio.
That's a good question.
So let's go into W. 3. This is my favorite one, because this is kind of where it all clicks.
So this is the why does my customer buy from me? So we know what they're buying.
And every single one that we just heard of those examples we could say, Okay, well, why do they want that? And that's key. Because, knowing what isn't going to sell it, knowing why they want it is what's key to getting these people to say? Yes.
So the Y is the value your customers get from what they're buying.
So the outcome.
There's what they're buying which give.
Gives them a certain part of value.
That we need to.
Extract and dissect and understand. And that's this. Why? So it's the outcome.
Let's go back to the haircut example.
For me and a couple others who said, When I'm buying a haircut, I'm buying confidence from the.
Salon.
Whether it's because I want.
Their expertise, or I feel better when I get a haircut, whatever it is.
I want to buy confidence.
Why?
Well.
For me. One reason why I might get a haircut is because I have a big work event.
So I want to get that promotion. You can ask why? Again.
Maybe I want to get the promotion because I want to buy a house because I want to impress my family because I want to. You can ask why? 1,000 times kinda like Neil said, in jobs to be done. You kind of want to stop at a certain point because it'll get existential.
What's another example? For the haircut? So if they're buying it for confidence, why, I can think of a couple of others. What could be a why, for that.
Be like.
Looking good for your job.
Looking nice for a date kind of thing. I like.
There we go. Interesting. Yeah.
I completely agree.
You're buying confidence. Why? Because you have a date. And why do you want to look good for the date? Because you want a second date, or because you want this person to think highly of you because you have an interview, and you want to get that job because you want this new life change. You want to move whatever it is. There are so many reasons, and you could extract all of those just from this person buying a haircut.
And you see it right. You see it in haircuts like there are reasons that people buy haircuts and they market it to us. For those reasons.
So that's the why.
Now.
Equally as important is, how does my customer that y. So there's understanding there? Why.
But if you can't explain to them that.
Or show them that you are helping them achieve that. Why, in the way that they measure it, it means nothing.
So.
I want you to differentiate how your customer measures and how you measure value. So a lot of you might think that you're bringing value to your customer because of Xyz. But if the way they measure value is complete.
Completely different, then that means nothing to them.
Real life example. Amos talks about his time at businesscom.
Businesscom is selling insights into customer competitors, products.
So, however, businesscom measures that.
It doesn't matter.
What their customers measure that? Why it, as what they found by interviewing them, is additional revenue brought in by those leads, when they convert to sales.
So businesscom was previously measuring how successful they were providing value to their comp customers, as how many insights or how many leads they gave into their customers products.
They would be completely off base, because their customers they realize only care about the additional revenue that's brought in. When those leads convert to sales.
Being lead. Gen. And giving them a bunch of leads actually means nothing to them if they don't convert. So they had to change their strategy in order to provide that value to customers. And they realize that's actually why they were losing customers.
Does that make sense.
Cool.
So moving forward. Another caveat is that b 2 b has 2 y's, this has been a big like slide. I was waiting for for you guys because a lot of you asked this during the understanding your customers last week.
B. 2 B. Has 2 wise. There's the business as a whole.
And there's the decision maker as a person.
The second one is very important at the start.
If you can figure out how the decision maker as an actual person who has human emotions and wants.
How that decision maker as a person measures the value you're bringing them.
You can figure out their motivation, and why they're buying your product or service, and therefore you can get them to say Yes.
An example.
The company measures value from your like a company.
Measures their value that you're giving them from your lead Gen. Software as business com by the extra revenue it brings in. Like, I just said.
But if your individual decision Maker.
Is the chief revenue officer.
And the companies that you're targeting.
Have a chief revenue officer who has no personal to surpass the revenue goals that they already meet without your product.
Then you're going to be hitting a wall. You're going to know that you can help these businesses. But the decision maker keeps saying, No.
That's because there's no motivation. There.
So.
This is a real life example, but business com had to adjust their w. 1.
To specifically companies with chief revenue officers who are financially incentivized to surpass revenue goals.
Once they started.
Targeting businesses that had that exact w. 1 with the decision maker having that incentive because they would get in with the chief revenue officer, he would say, yes, and then the business as a whole, they already know that they can provide value there. So, figuring out how the decision maker measures. Value is very important as well. You need to treat them as a person, and then there's the business as a whole that you also need to serve.
Does anyone have questions here? Because this is a really important point.
Okay.
So feel free to adjust your w. 1 and W. 2, as you think about your W. 3.
Remember that all of these are theories at the end of this workshop. In about 15 min you will have a set of W. 3 s. But you will need to go out and test them, using jobs to be done.
So one more note. One more story I have for B. Twob. That I alluded to last week is Bloomfield. So you'll meet the CEO of Bloomfield during.
Program. This was a 22 company we had in our summer cohort in Texas.
They came in and they were targeting.
Businesses
Technology businesses who had between 50 and 100 employees.
They were targeting CTO at those businesses, and they were targeting people who had.
Had 2 to 3.
Developmental errors that caused significant backup in in revenue throughout the year.
Because they were kind of a jira. So they were helping developers figure out their problems and their bottlenecks in their development to streamline, their software processes and rollouts.
What they realized was that their w. 1 was all wrong. They were selling to CTO as much about these.
Backups in the processes of flowing out product.
The CTO's at these companies were much more worried about other things. It was the chief innovation officers.
Who ended up caring about this streamlined process about stopping these bottlenecks that we're inhibiting progress. So when they change the decision maker to being the chief.
Innovation officer. I think they realized that the chief innovation officer is the one who's.
Job was on the line by not.
Having their.
Processes streamlined. And having all these backups, they realize that chief innovation officer, the one that would get promoted if they brought in this like product if they championed bloom filter. So they started targeting chief innovation officers as their businesses champion.
And he would bring in. He or she would bring in their product and champion. It.
Like no other.
These deals started going through very quickly, and they've grown exponentially. They are doing extremely well. I don't know if Neil, you want to talk about.
Where they're at currently. But you'll get to meet their CEO. So that's 1 of my favorite examples of real life. Tech stars. W. 3, helping.
Scale of business.
Okay.
So let's take 90 seconds.
To do your why?
Write down your theory on the why question how you believe your customers will measure them, and then how you can ensure you have the right tools to measure it in the way that they do, so that you can prove that you're providing the value to them.
Take 90 seconds.
Alright! That's our time.
So.
Do a couple of people want to share their why.
Yeah, sure.
Okay, this was a bit harder, actually.
But yeah.
I said, to develop a game that will be played on a large scale for decade. For a decade.
With understanding every player deeply in real time, at 1 3rd of a cost than usual.
I think that's definitely the why for the business.
What about for the person who's gonna say S to you? Why are they specifically incentivized to.
To do this.
Is it like that promoted within the company? If they can bring these insights or.
What do you think?
And they they.
The decision maker will have less on.
What people are saying so because he can understand in real time.
And business as a whole.
Can a profit.
I loved by May, developing a game that is played over a decade.
Yeah, I like that kind of like legacy thinking, because I also think that that's attractive for the decision maker. A lot of decision makers in
Like b 2 b.
Will like being the champion of something that brings a lot of glory to the company. Right? Like everyone wants to be that champion for the company. So if they're the one that brings something in that makes this game a hit for 10 years, that's a huge incentive.
Yeah.
And that's something you can use and play to when you sell to them.
Like paint that.
And the measurements tools for this Y is the live player, count.
And money per.
Like feed.
Money spent per feedback, analyzed.
Okay, that's how they care about it. So if you can get that down, they would be happy.
Okay, I like that. I think that's a great example.
What about Agent Leonard.
So we're still discussing this. It's not quite there yet, but I think, for the business as a whole. We said that they really want to be.
The best, the best in the business, the best in the industry, and the top expert in their area. So just to clarify, we're talking about residential real estate sales agents, and then, in terms of.
The decision maker. It's essentially so. They can close more sales and make more money.
And how they will measure it is through the number of listens and number of sales.
How they compare, and, like comparison, lead tables.
And then how do we make sure they've got the right tools.
We can tie back their activity to that exact social post which will do through the dashboard. So where.
Where they are now, versus where they started, and what's.
Was towards that.
So kind of showing the Delta you think will prove to them that you're providing that value cause you're gonna track. The thing that they care about? Is that what you're saying.
Yeah, that's right.
That's great!
I think that's awesome.
Thanks.
We can take.
One more.
Yeah, flow.
Okay, I'll give it a go. So one of the wise is because they want to scale their portfolios without the need to hire more guest relation that directly impact the bottom line.
And when you speak from the person itself, because they don't want to jeopardize the quality of the service that they provide.
At their business.
Which would negatively affect their position as an operations director.
Yeah. So not having to hire more people. But the revenue still going up basically is that or the amount of custom.
The service quality, not going down as a result of increasing the portfolio size.
Yeah.
And how do they measure service quality.
Do they get like a star rating.
Reviews.
Okay.
Yeah.
There we go!
Bad reviews.
That's perfect.
So you can. Basically, you see how just like Agent Lunar was saying, like, you might eaten the product, want to develop something that shows them that they're like service quality is staying up.
Because of your product, so that that can consistently reinforce how much value you're bringing.
Yeah, that's exactly it.
So let's just wrap here. Now, you have your theory of your W. 3, each of you.
It's a theory, it's not validated. It's just an assumption. How do we go test it?
The answer is jobs to be done. So, as you guys are doing, your customer discovery.
You're going to be able to validate every single part of your W. 3.
So this is not part of the book, but what I've seen is that it maps perfectly onto your job statement. So remember that when I I want to, so that I.
This is the same, the when I, the who, the situation, the attributes that the person is under.
I want to. What are they buying or hiring? What is their desire? And then why, what is their outcome or value, so that I.
So.
You guys doing your jobs to be done will help validate this W. 3 blueprint that you guys have created today. And you might need to readjust it as you gain more insights, and you start talking to these people.
But I think these 2 go.
Perfectly together, and not only does it give you the theory of W. 3, which is in the leverage, we have an actual way to go out and test it and validate it, which is really like.
A foolproof plan, because then you know that it's true. And then you can start making business decisions and implications on your product, on your marketing based on that, because, you know, it's true.
So that is the end.
I will stick around for questions. But since we have only 2 min, you guys are good to head out if you need all your participation. This was awesome, and we'll continue to refer back to this and help you guys refine it.